What I wanna show you here is how I can use Unix commands
and pipe them together to help me solve a problem.
Now, I'm working on this project here
and I've noticed that there's some console login
and I don't want that to go into production,
so I know that this particular code,
or the login rather,
isn't actually being generated from my code,
that I'm authoring for the website, the project.
It's happening inside of the node_modules.
I remember opening up a file somewhere
and adding console log to output to help me debug.
The problem is I've forgotten which file I modified.
So, the first thing I wanna do is find the files
that were modified in the last 24 hours.
I remember it being yesterday,
I don't remember exactly what time
and I just wanna find those files.
And I know about the find command,
but I can't remember the syntax.
Pretty straightforward to fix.
Off to Google, find modified files in the last 24 hours,
and the very first response,
I tend to stick Unix in front of it sometimes,
or Linux in front of it.
The very first answer is a stack overflow,
quite possibly what I'm looking for.
So I go down to this, here we go,
so this is find all the modified files in the last day,
so find directory_path -mtime, so I'm gonna copy this.
Obviously we need to change directory_path name
to my node_modules to try and find
the particular files, that have changed.
So, here in my project directory,
I remember it being in the node_modules,
but I don't remember exactly what file it was.
So I'm gonna put this in here,
change the directory_path to dot,
remember dot means the current working directory.
I'm gonna do dot slash, same thing, and enter.
OK, so there's a lot of stuff here,
and there's a lot of output,
there's a lot of things, that I don't really understand,
so this number, I don't really know what that is.
These are permissions, which I recognise.
This is I don't know, this is me, the owner of the group.
This is the file size.
This is the timestamp I'm interested in.
Then we've got, oh, we've got this,
which is a directory, which I don't care about.
And then we have this, which is an alias,
that points to an actual file.
So the first thing is,
I don't actually care about directories.
If I scroll back up, I can see
there's quite a few directories to start off with,
so let's get rid of the directories.
Now, find, if you look at the manual for find,
you'll see that you can specify the type of...
it's not quite file, but the type of thing
you're looking for,
so you can do -type d means directory, f means file,
I think s means symbolic link.
You can look at the man. page for this
or Google the man. page for this.
So, I'm just gonna narrow down the files and run that again.
Again, a tonne of stuff
and it looks like I'm still getting the directories,
so I'm not quite sure why
and that's not really having the effect I want,
so I'm just gonna ignore that for a minute,
get rid of the -type f and use our friend, grep.
So, I'm gonna grep for anything ending with .js
and I'm gonna use egrep, which is regular expression grep,
with a dollar on the end, so it's like a regular expression,
let's try that again.
Cool.
So now, you can see I've got a lot less results
and it looks like all of them end with that .js
at the ends here.
So, I've got a bit of a task ahead of me.
There's lots of files still turning up
and it's pretty hard to consume all this content.
So, I'm gonna use a tool called Awk.
Well in fact, I can just use a simpler version called Cut.
Sorry, I've lost what I'm doing.
I'm just gonna move into less,
so I can just look at one of these.
So I wanna just cut this into columns,
and just look at the specific end column
and see if I see any pattern.
So the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna count,
so I've got, if it's zero base,
so I'm gonna do zero, one, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10
and then there's an arrow,
11, sorry, yeah,
11, 12, I think 12.
So we're looking for this column.
So I'm gonna do a cut, and pipe this to cut
and I think I can just say the field is 12.
That did not work at all.
Nope, OK.
Maybe I need to specify the delimiter at 12?
Right, that doesn't work, because it's cutting by space
and if you look at the results again,
it thinks it's a single space.
So I'm gonna switch to another tool called awk,
which is similar, but it automatically breaks up by spaces,
so automatically break it into columns for me.
I just need to do print dollar 12, I think it was.
Now, these braces, this is actually a little programme
I'm passing to awk,
but a really common use case for awk is to say,
print the first column,
print the second column,
so it's zero base for the first column, there,
print zero one?
Oh yeah, sorry, zero is everything,
so you want 12, no, 13,
so it's pretty much my workflow,
I'll just basically repeat, till I get what I want.
OK, so it's looking a bit better.
I'm now gonna pipe this to sort.
So, it kind of gives me roughly the path.
You can see some duplicates there,
so I'm just gonna pass it into unique,
which we would have met in previous screens cast.
OK, so it's given me a better idea,
but I'm having to read through all of this again
and it's still a bit tricky.
I'm not quite sure which file I'm looking for.
Yeah, I remember it not being in
kind of jsp define and so on, so I could kind of do...
I could do it pass it into a grep, and I could use grep -v
to say ignore this particular one, js-bea,
just shorten that to get rid of the js-beautifiers,
so you can see those are gone now.
Oops, just put that back into sort, unique,
so you can see js-beautify is gone,
but I'm still missing a lot of context,
and it's not quite giving me what I want.
So let's go back again
and look at the raw data I've got.
The one thing I have spotted is the date.
This particular date kind of repeats over and over again,
so I must have maybe installed a bunch of modules
at the same time, around that time, I reckon.
Maybe one module and it added
a whole bunch of mode packages,
so I'm actually gonna do a grep -v
to get rid of anything that includes
the 17th of Jan. at 14:20.
So, let's go back here, grep -v,
and because I copied it, I can just paste it straight in.
And off we go again.
Much better, now we're getting through results.
If I just use that awk again.
What was it, print dollar 12,
oops, 13,
nope,
11?
Yeah.
OK, so now, yes, I remember,
so we can have a quick look in one of these files.
I'm just gonna choose one at random,
vi,
console log, there we go, so that's the console log
I was looking for.
So I can just get, oops!
I can just get rid of those.
I'll probably open it in sublime at this point
and then just edit it and save it,
but that's how I'm kind of
piping commands together, creating a workflow,
and using the little commands
I have on the See Lite to help me dig in
and you know, find things that I was looking for.